# SadeikFinalProject
Final project for CSCI 2270

	For my final project for Data Structures, I am writing an encryption algorithm called Crypton that will run as a command line program. It takes a text file as input and spits out a encrypted version of the text in the command line. it will also take an encrypted text file and a corresponding encryption key as input and decrypt the message in the commandline assuming that the key is correct. The two methods used to encrypt the text work much like shuffling a deck of cards. One of them is a faro shuffle (perfect shuffle) in which the two halves of the deck are taken and the cards from the two halves are integrated together in perfect alternating fashion. The second method emulates a six pile shuffle where the entire deck is delt into six piles and the pile are picked up in an order where the piles are not related to eachother (I chose to do the order 1,5,3,6,2,4). These methods are employed in random order, a random number of times with the order of ops and the number of time each operation is done being recorded in the encryption key vector as integer elements. In addition, the same set of methods is applied to a pool of random symbols recording the order and number times each operation is performed in the key. Then, unique groups of 3 symbols will be taken and assigned to represet all the symbols of a standard keyboard(excluding single and double quotes, line breaks, and this thing that it didnt like for whatever reason ~) all the symbols that it does recognize are specified by the string variable cipher declared on line 155 of the main function). This is used to convert the letters of the now scrambled message into a gibberish consisting of completely randomized symbols. Decryption will work by reading in an encrypted text file and manuallly entering its key in the command line. if the key is correct, then all the encrypting operations wil be performed in reverse resulting in the original message.

	
	To run this program, cd into its bin/debug folder where the compiled binary is located, open the terminal, and run with the command ./Crypton 
When typing in the fileName of the text file you wish to encrypt, you will have to add its path before it unless you have copy pasted it into the debug folder you are running the program out of. Same goes for decrypting a file. After encryption, copy paste the encrypted text from the terminal into a new text file. 

	This program has no dependancies on non-standard libraries.

	As far as system requirements go, it works in the linux terminal. I have not tried it elsewhere and at this point in my computer science education, I am dumb enough to not know if that means it will also run in OSX or windows.

	Group Members: Matthew Sadeik

	Open issues: So for some reason, there are very certain encryption key's that are within it's key generation parameters that cause it to seg fault. I had to restrict the last digit in the key (which specifies the number of six pile shuffles done on the pool of random symbols) to the numbers 6 and 7. Any number below 6 causes it to seg fault. mysteriously, this restriction does not also apply to the text file content which can be six pile shuffled successfully any number of times between 0 and 7. Weirdly, there were a couple encryption keys (for example: 213633) that worked despite the last digit not being 6 or 7. This difference seemed to trace back to the second digit of the key which is responsible for the order that operations are done on the pool of random symbols.